Title: Story

----

Text: 

As an independent design studio decoding the complexity of our world, Ralston Bau connects people and our common spaces through transformative practice. We take ideas into action, and complex questions into essential objects.

(link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/birgittaralston text: Birgitta Ralston) was born in 1967 and (link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexandrebau text: Alexandre Bau) in 1970.  
Ralston & Bau is an idealistic design studio based in Bergen, Norway and Marseille, France.

In 2001, they created their design studio Ralston & Bau. Ralston Bau is interested in the unexpected to areas, unexplored by the design practice. This led them to give life to Transplant, an experimental design space, which was born in 2007. It was a centre of 600 m2, located at the edge of a fjord in a village in Norway, where successful collaborations between art and design took place, for example in the Cycle of Mutations program. In 2009, they created Ideal Lab, a research program through design. In this laboratory, they invited 52 artists, designers and sociologists to think, create and carry out experiments. Ralston & Bau's creations range from the narrative space to the personal and identity object, to the collection of furniture and lighting that offers new rituals for living in the public space. Today, they work according to contexts, invitations and partners within the Idealist Institute.

In 2010, Ralston & Bau received the Fjalerprisen, for their distinguished contribution to the Norwegian community of Fjaler, won the 2013 Red Dot Product Design Award and the 2014 VIA Label for the Shroom Collection of urban lighting and seating, inspired by the needs of local nordic villages. Their creations have been exhibited at the International Design Biennial of Saint-Etienne (France), Centre of Fashion and Design in Paris and at the Oslo Architecture Triennial; they are also part of the permanent collection of the Sogn og Fjordane Art Museum in Førde and KODE Art Museum in Bergen.

(link: http://www.idealist.institute text: Idealist Institute) is a collaborative platform for citizens and professionals with the ambition to make ideal, inclusive sustainable futures happen, within their own fields and local contexts in transformation. It builds further on the Ideal Lab, by using it’s methods and values to work within contexts belonging to partner institutions. Ralston & Bau consider ethics and social commitment as crucial for a competent and sustainable design practice.